---
    title: SHIELD Newsletter n.1 - May 2017
    layout: news
---

<h2>A universal security infrastructure for ISPs and corporate networks using
NFV-enabled technologies: the SHIELD project</h2>

<p>
<a target="blank" style="float:right;"
  href="{{ site.baseurl | append: '/documents/other-documents/' | append: 'shield_newsletter_1_may_2017.pdf' }}"
  class="btn btn-default">
    <i class="fa fa-download" aria-hidden="true"></i> Download PDF
</a>

</p>

<img src="{{ 'shield.png' | prepend: '/img/logo/' | prepend: site.baseurl }}"
  width="229" height="229" />

<p>The recently launched EU-funded SHIELD project proposes a universal
solution for the dynamic establishment and deployment of virtual security
infrastructures into ISP (Internet Service Provider) and corporate networks.
SHIELD builds on the huge momentum of <em>Network Functions
Virtualisation</em> (NFV), as currently standardised by ETSI, SDN
(<em>Software-Defined Networking</em>) for virtualization and dynamic
placement of virtualised security appliances in the network (<em>virtual
Network Security Functions</em> – vNSFs), <em>Big Data Analytics</em> for
real-time incident detection and mitigation, as well as attestation
techniques, as defined by <em>Trusted Computing</em> (TC).</p>

<p>Data and logs are aggregated and fed into an information-driven
<em>Intrusion Detection and Prevention System</em> (IDPS). This platform is
called <em>Data Analysis and Remediation Engine</em> (DARE) and it features
analytical components capable of predicting specific vulnerabilities and
attacks by analysing the network and understanding the adversary
possibilities, behaviour and intent.</p>

<p>The SHIELD virtual security infrastructure can either be used by an ISP for
network monitoring and protection, but it can also be offered as-a-service to
the ISP clients. For this purpose, SHIELD establishes a catalogue of available
virtual security functions from which the ISP clients can select the ones that
best match their needs and deploy them to protect their infrastructure. This
approach promotes openness and interoperability of security functions and
offers an affordable, zero-CAPEX security solution for citizens and SMEs.
Moreover, SHIELD services can be easily scaled up or down, configured and
upgraded according to clients’ needs, as opposed to security solutions based
on monolithic hardware.</p>

<p>The SHIELD framework brings together all actors in the security value
chain/network (ISPs, enterprises, end users, cybersecurity agencies, security
vendors) into a single ecosystem and facilitates the interactions between
them, enabling new business models. SHIELD security services can be either
used internally by the network operators/ISPs, and/or offered as-a-Service to
their clients.</p>

<p>In this initial phase, the partners of the consortium have contributed in
the dissemination activities. First, an official
<a href="https://www.shield-h2020.eu/">web site</a> has been activated, where
the relevant information about the project’s mission, official documentation
and news can be found and are constantly updated. In addition, the SHIELD
project is present on different social media
(<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/shield-eu-project">LinkedIn</a>, <a
href="https://twitter.com/shield_h2020">Twitter</a>), whose channels are used
for communication activities.</p>

<p>Given the broad scope of technologies involved in the project, various
aspects of the SHIELD concepts have been presented to the scientific and
industrial communities in national and international forums. Links to
downloadable content (e.g. presentations, posters) can be found <a
href="https://www.shield-h2020.eu/documents/other-documents.html">here</a>.</p>

<p>A poster describing the general scope of the project has been presented in
<strong>the 7<sup>th</sup> Infocom Security Conference</strong> in Athens
(Greece) in March 2017.</p>

<p>Regarding the data analytics, the binomial between cybersecurity and Big
Data foreseen by the project has been presented at the <strong>Big Data Value
Association</strong> (BDVA) General Meeting in Valencia (Spain) in November
2016.</p>

<p>The contribution of SHIELD in the cybersecurity area has been presented to
different security-oriented forums. First, the possible application of the
SHIELD infrastructure to security of <em>Internet of Things</em> (IoT) fleets
has been proposed at the audience of the <strong>C&amp;ESAR 2016</strong>
conference, held in Rennes (France) in November 2016, which gathers several
governmental agencies, industrial leaders, and academic researchers across the
country. Additionally, the concepts between SHIELD have been presented in the
<strong>CTS 2017</strong> event in Rome (Italy) in April 2017, which focused
on cybersecurity issues with IT administrators for Public Sector and
decision-makers, attracting a lot of attention.</p>

<p>A paper titled “SHIELD: A Novel NFV-based Cybersecurity Framework”,
presenting the key use cases and requirements for the SHIELD system and its
high-level architectural approach, has been accepted in the Second
International Workshop on Security in NFV-SDN (<strong>SNS 2017</strong>) that
will be held in conjunction with the IEEE Conference on Network Softwarization
at Bologna, Italy.</p>

<p>Regarding the contribution of SHIELD in the NFV environment, a technical
solution towards performing software integrity assessment of virtual security
functions based on lightweight virtualisation has been presented at the
<strong>ETSI NFV-SEC</strong> meeting, held in Bilbao (Spain) on February
21-24, 2017. Also, use cases defined in SHIELD has been accepted as part of
the standardization document in an updated version (ETSI NFV 001) that covers
new relevant use cases. In addition, the binomial between cybersecurity and
network function virtualisation foreseen by the SHIELD concept has been
discussed in the <strong>MPLS+NFV+SDN World Congress</strong> from
21<sup>st</sup> to 24<sup>th</sup> of March 2017, in Paris (France).</p>

<p>You can find additional information about

<ul>
  <li>Key user and system requirements collected and defined</li>
  <li>Requirements survey with the participation of security
  professionals</li>
  <li>High-level system architecture drafted</li>
</ul>

at:

<ul>
  <li><a
  href="https://www.shield-h2020.eu/shield-h2020/documents/project-deliverables/SHIELD_D2.1_Requirements_KPIs_Design_and_Architecture_v1.0.pdf">Deliverable
  D2.1 Requirements, KPIs, design and architecture</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.shield-h2020.eu/shield-h2020/documents/project-deliverables/SHIELD_D6.1_Project_Dissemination_and_Communication_Plan_v.1.0.pdf">Deliverable
D6.1 Project Dissemination and Communication Plan</a></li>
</ul>
</p>
<br/>
<p>Contact us at <a
href="mailto:info@shield-h2020.eu">info[at]shield-h2020.eu</a>
<br/>
Visit us at <a href="https://www.shield-h2020.eu"
class="uri">https://www.shield-h2020.eu</a>
<br/>
Follow us on Twitter <a
href="https://twitter.com/shield_h2020">@shield_h2020</a>
<br/>
Connect with us LinkedIn <a
href="https://www.linkedin.com/company-beta/17928049/?pathWildcard=17928049">SHIELD
EU Project</a>
</p>
